# raspberryonion
A defensive Raspberry

Nowadays, with the Internet Of Things, more and more computer tools exist and more and more people have access to devices connected to the network. 
As a result, the number of cyber attacks is increasing, hence the importance of securing one’s network. 
This is where the idea of Raspberry Onion came from to provide an easy-to-use defensive security solution that includes an intrusion detection system, 
malicious traffic detection and the ability to capture and analyze network traffic, all on a Raspberry Pi 4 to ensure the security of a home network.

Currently, no Raspberry provides a complete intrusion detection and analysis system.

The work we have done is the selection, modification and implementation of tools available on the Security Onion distro mainly 
but also other tools that were deemed relevant to include, so that they are compatible with the Raspberry architecture. 
We chose this project in order to improve our security skills, to take part in Linux open source activities, 
to explore new concepts but most of all to implement something that had never been done before. 

The Linux Security Onion distribution is a pillar when it comes to defensive security. It is extremely complete but requires very high performance, 
at least 8GB of RAM for optimal use. However, the goal of our project being to integrate security tools on a system that has only 4Gb of RAM 
and adifferent architecture, we had to make choices, modifications and find out what can and cannot be done when implementing the tools on the Raspberry.


Why a defensive Raspberry?

The objective of implementing an IDS on a Raspberry Pi would allow to secure small networks like those of a SME by paying much less than buying a computer.


Are there similar solutions on Raspberry?

There are several scripts on GitHub (the 2 best known are Autosnort and Snorter). They install Snort, Barnyard2, Pulledpork
and a web inteframe to view the alerts generated by Snort. Having tried them at the beginning of the project, 
they are not compatible with the latest version of Raspberry. We had a lot of errors during the installation, an installation that had the merit of being simple.
Let's not forget that network security needs to evolve and be updated very regularly given the speed of deployment of attacks. 

There are also videos on Youtube with conferences that deal with the subject of defensive Raspberry or the installation of Security Onion 
on a Raspberry but the problem of compatibility between the classical architecture and ARM often came up. Especially since it is written explicitly 
on the Security Onion documentation that the distribution is not compatible with ARM.

It's the perfect time to start such a project, there are a few projects on IDS for Raspberry to research and learn but not enough to rush into a topic seen 
and reviewed. In addition, the age of some of the solutions leaves the door wide open for newer solutions like the one we're about to present to you. 


Are there other alternatives to Security Onion? 

While doing our research, we discovered SELKS, a product from Stamus Networks, which is a Debian-based distribution designed for network security management. 
It provides a Suricata-based, out-of-the-box environment with its own graphical policy manager. The system also includes Kibana (for viewing logs and other data)
and Scirius (a policy management interface for Suricata) dashboards. SELKS uses Elastic tools for data storage and analysis. This distribution contains Suricata,
Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana, Scirius, Moloch and Evebox.
